hi everyone and welcome back to the
China history podcast Lazlo Montgomery
here for you
as always our 247 episode this time part
4 in our CHP overview the history of Xin
Jiang as we venture our way down the
timeline we have watched the ebb and
flow of Han Dynasty Chinese domination
in the various regions in Xin Jiang the
Han Dynasty one hell of a good run at
least for a while
but good things don't last forever and
neither did the Han in the 190s Along
Came dong Zhou and all that damage he
did to what remained of Leo pons once
great dynasty followed bites halts howl
which ultimately led to the division of
China into three kingdoms 220 to 280 the
northern kingdom of Solway extended all
the way west into the hood XI corridor
butting up against Xin Jiang when they
wasted no time in establishing relations
with various states and the Tarim basin
the kingdom of Shu in the southwest home
of Leo Bay chuckling and other
luminaries because of their proximity to
Xinjiang like saw way they also
maintained relations with several of
these Oasis kingdoms the wool kingdom
the third of the three being located in
China's southeastern parts they were cut
off from Xin Jiang and weren't involved
with that area during the Three Kingdoms
period and what China divided like it
was there was no one single dynasty or
Kingdom that was as big and bad as the
Han which meant for these states and
kingdoms located around the basin's of
Xin Jiang well for a time they were
relatively free of Chinese control and
interference and during this long period
of disunity that lasted clear through to
the end of the 6th century they got to
enjoy some semblance of self-rule over a
sustained period of time but that didn't
mean they were free and clear of all
danger we'll see in a bit there were
still other nomadic tribes from the
north who penetrated Xin Jiang to get
their hands on some of the riches
is the third century came to a close and
the fourth began China was divided up
and there began a rather long period of
Han Chinese disengagement from Xin Jiang
normally in past times when Chinese
power and influence waned it was an
opportunity for the shownu to revive
their fortunes but this time third
fourth century the show knew as well for
all their own reasons began to fade the
confederation that had once terrorized
the oasis kingdom some Xin Jiang for so
many years they split up someone to the
west some migrated back to former lands
in northern Shan XI Gansu and Inner
Mongolia and as it was with so many of
these northern nomads from beyond the
great wall they slowly disappeared only
to live on as strands of DNA that ended
up getting blended in with others in
North China and elsewhere in Central
Asia
these Xiong nu men and women from ma do
can use time like the ancient Egyptians
of fairy onic times you'd be
hard-pressed to find any of these people
in their ancient forms walking around
these days with Xinjiang so far away to
the west it wasn't as easy a place to
hold on to compared to the core lands of
China between an Alsatian Shi province
in the China coast to project that much
military power which was the only way to
maintain control the Chinese state had
to be united and firing on all cylinders
anytime a crisis hit and the center
turned its attention to emergencies
closer to home they lost control of Xin
Chen end of the eastern Han Dynasty 220
all the way clear through to 581 with
the arrival of the sway China was
wracked with war and endless contention
between competing States in these
northern steppe people were as fearsome
to the Chinese in the third and fourth
centuries as the Mongols were in the
13th their violence and fearsomeness
coupled with a disruption of Chinese
society they caused
led to these mass migrations that I've
spoken about in past episodes
besides migrating unmasked to the south
of China well during this time period
many Han Chinese also saw western China
including Xin Jiang to be somewhat of a
safer Haven compared to the havoc in the
traditional China heartland
not everyone migrated southward but out
and she's young so far away so hard to
get to it's so hard to survive and once
he got there and I was a bridge too far
for most all of these contending
dynasties in the eastern half of China
we'll look at the Liang dynasty former
and later next episode they were the
westernmost of all these northern
sixteen kingdoms as the Xiong nu faded a
new group of people rose to dominance in
the north they used to bow before this
young nu but now they were the baddest
guys in the neighborhood these were the
shinbei and I won't talk about them much
because they aren't as central to our
scenes yang story as the show knew the
empire that was built by the shen bay
was more of a mongolian empire that
stretched from present-day Manchuria
inner mongolia mongolia clear through to
the west just beyond xin zhang into
kazakhstan you've heard of the shen bay
before they carved out a nice place for
themselves in early chinese history with
the dynasty they left behind the
northern wei of the southern and
northern dynasties period more about
them next episode you know there were so
many different tribes of these nomads
wandering around the lands north of
china
none of these nations left any written
records and the artifacts dug out of the
ground they offer up more speculation
rather than facts on all these steppe
people or wool as the Chinese called
them and their histories and Buddhism as
we'll see in the coming episodes was
having a feeding frenzy before all this
new Buddhism trickled into China it
first percolated for a while in and
around the tire and basin in many of
these city-states or
Oasis kingdoms so flush with riches
earned from the Silk Road trade they
became the earliest and most important
centers of Buddhist learning despite the
violent times in between the Han and the
sway trade still flourished there was
still an insatiable demand for all those
nice China products throughout all the
great trading entrepot x' between
Dunhuang and the eastern mediterranean
and in order to feed this demand this
ancient one belt one road that had
developed over the years and was busy
every trading season and the most
legendary of all these Silk Road trading
kingdoms was in Satya
this was their golden age the sogdians
they were just one of many people Jiang
Chen bumped into during his mid second
century BCE journey anyway these
indo-iranian people these sogdians whose
lands were to the north of the kushan
empire and west of Xin Jiang they were
central to an enormous portion of the
two-way trade between all of Central
Asia and China in fact during this
period in between the Han and the sway
the sogdians dominated Silk Road trade
they were Zoroastrians
and didn't go in for Buddhism that much
let me mention again the sogdians were
indo-iranian and spoke a language from
that branch and their Sogdian language
was the lingua franca for the whole Silk
Road their role as traders and diplomats
was legendary and their presence was
noted in historical records found
throughout Asia from Manchuria to the
Middle East despite what's popularly
thought most of the Silk Road trade
wasn't carried out Marco Polo style one
trade caravan traversing the whole Asian
continent to provision such an
enterprise was extremely ambitious and
almost impossible for those times all
the great silks and manufactures of
ancient China that still have staying
power into our own century Chinese
traders usually
only brought their wares only as far as
ching chang and they did their business
all around the tire and basin and after
the deals were done and goods were
exchanged these 36 kingdoms or 50
kingdoms they took over from there and
got everything distributed throughout
all the markets of central asia and
nobody seemed to do it better more
efficiently or trouble-free than the
sogdians they are remembered as the
greatest of the ancient Silk Road
traders clear through to the Tang
Dynasty they were the dominant merchants
envoys and influencers but their lands
were all west of Xin Jiang so let's not
wander off on another epic tangent let's
quickly run through a few of the better
known of these Oasis kingdoms that rim
the towering Basin and served as weigh
stations along the Silk Roads where
goods and ideas can be exchanged respite
could be had Buddhist learning could be
obtained sutras translated and copied
and relationships created or fortified
for the next time these people met again
so while we have this lull in the action
comparatively speaking let's take a
quick glance at the more important
kingdoms where they were located
relative to each other will sort that
all out now most of these kingdoms
vanished into the desert and are still
being excavated today by archaeologists
the kingdoms are gone but the cities
remain in their present form
haami Kashgar coulton church and Kucha
and in chinese haami Kashar korean GMO
chili let's start on the South Rim these
were the kingdoms of kashikar Yarkon
Houghton and Shan Shan let's start with
the last Kingdom in the west before you
wander beyond China's current borders
this is Kashgar Marcopolo passed through
here in the 12 70s
well everybody passed through here on
their way in or out of China the Chinese
had names for all these kingdoms and
they called kashgar the kingdom of
Schule it occupies the extreme western
end of the Tarim basin
the kingdom of Shula at which kashgar
was the most important city wasn't a
military power and thrived on trade when
travelling east from Parthia or Central
Asia and the direction of China kashgar
was the first of these Oasis States he
came to there at this commercial hub
China bound traders could elect to take
the northern or southern Silk Road
routes depending on who their tyrant
base and trading partners were the
closer we get to the 19th century the
more important kashgar becomes so I'm
gonna hold off on that and we'll come
back to Kosh car and the Shula Kingdom
when we get to the rise of the gurke
turks and the tang dynasty the next
kingdom down the road to the east about
500 kilometers away from kashgar a
distance of santa monica pier to the
grand canyon came the city of coton
today called hood en the chinese knew
this place way back then is UTM I don't
know if I'd call this the most famous
and fabled of these ancient Oasis
kingdoms but it's right up there these
parts of the towering Basin the South
Rim these were mostly indo-iranian part
two Chinese called them the Sai let me
mention again hope you don't mind these
people from two 3,000 years ago
inhabiting these shinjang lands well
everyone out there were indo-european
some spoke these Tahari in languages
some spoke thee indo-iranian languages
the language of Houghton was called
kotani's and was one of these Sokka
indo-iranian languages the official
dates of the kingdom of Houghton are 56
to 1006 ee the kingdom was based right
around present-day Hoodie n but
stretched all the way west into
tajikistan to thrive you need a day of
water all the great cities of the world
they were either ports or on great
rivers Houghton was watered by the Tai
rim
and Yarkon rivers and being inland
rivers in this arid of a climate the
waters run hard when the snows of the
Kunlun mountains that fed them melted in
the spring and summer and then in the
cold months when the mountains held all
the water in the form of ice the rivers
run low or dry out altogether like with
pretty much every other towering Basin
Kingdom Houghton was one of the many
places that jongchan stopped and visited
this would have been sometime around 140
BCE and like it is with everything
around Xin Jiang whatever we know about
Jung Chen and practically everything
else from this age comes straight out of
the book of Han and of course what has
been gleaned from archaeological
evidence and anecdotal writings from
travelers besides their rich agriculture
thanks to the abundance of water for
irrigation Houghton in its day was
particularly famous for several
commodities one was camels the trucks of
the desert but what Houghton was
particularly famous for was their
nephrite Jade that they carved out of
the Quinlin mountains all that Jade and
China what will not all of it but the
most prized Jade all came from coton the
Jade burial suits of the Emperor's also
from coton Houghton was filled with
endless groves of mulberry trees as far
as the eye can see and the leaves from
these mulberry trees fed the Bombyx mori
moth larvae who spun the cocoons that
provided all the raw materials for
Houghton's silk industry they were
already masters of silk by the time of
the Western Han and they didn't just
make the fabric Houghton was also famous
for their silk carpets as well as other
textile products so in addition to their
advantageous location was such an
abundance of fresh water not to mention
their prime location on a southern route
of the Silk Road two stops away from
kashgar they also had these thriving
industries going that kept this kingdom
in business for a long time almost a
thousand years the tombs from these
Royals and aristocrats who populated the
cities of the kingdom of Houghton most
of them were plundered over the
centuries and it's another case of
historical slim pickins as far as the
archeological excavations of the kingdom
of Houghton three kingdoms all in a row
Kashgar Yarkon and Houghton they all
competed and maintained a sometimes not
so amicable rivalry we'll come back to
this magical land again when we get to
the early tong and the Amazing
Adventures of the Buddhist monks who
visited Haute on and wrote extensively
of it including its Indian origins one
of these Buddhist monks we'll get to was
Shin sang he had written that Houghton
was founded by banished princes of
India's great King Ashoka despite the
legend the first inhabitants were Indo
ironic Sokka people not Indian we
mentioned lowland last episode in the
story of fuji 'it's that was the ancient
city also called quran that gave us the
towering mummy beauty of lowell on the
ruins of lowland today are about half a
day's drive from tun Wong these are the
ruins of the successor kingdom of
lowland named Shan Shan and Fuji it's a
conquered it I guess he could call
Lowell on the first stop on the Silk
Road right after one left done Guang
actually travelers and traders no matter
going east or west they had to pass
through lowland
Zhang Qian included he had mentioned
that it was located right where the
Tarim river flowed into lap nor and when
the towering river changed course and
water no longer flowed into lap nor you
know that pretty much signaled the end
of the kingdom of lo'laan when the last
of the mohicans there gave up the city
was abandoned to the Taklamakan desert
it's supposed that these residents
migrated northwards towards haami close
to the mountains with easy access to
water not to mention the melons for many
years low line was like a bile bear to
the shownu who depended heavily on the
foodstuffs and tribute they extracted
the troops of han china cross swords
with the Xiong nu
lo'laan on a number of occasions just
like with Houghton and kashgar this low
line or Shanshan Kingdom was made up of
a number of cities and we'll hear these
city names again and again throughout
this series
these were char click present-day
wrought young Church n present-day Chiam
or home of Church and man who we learned
about in part one and the westernmost
part of Shan Shan was the city of Nia
which was referred to in the book of Han
as Jing Jewett in the world of
archaeology Nia is quite renowned
because of the discoveries and
excavations carried out there by sororal
Stein right at the turn of the century
in 1900 these are known as the Nia ruins
the Nia each eart lots of stuff
uncovered especially from the time of
the western han and you don't have to go
to Xin Jiang gaseum Japanese British and
Indian museums hold most of the fruits
of these archeological Labour's if you
look on a physical map of Xin Jiang you
can see very clearly the turpan basin
like a sunken ship sitting on the
eastern shoulder of the Tarim basin with
the Tian Shan the heavenly mountains
segregating the two basins from each
other let's look at Turpin Chinese call
this place Tolu fun you see it on maps
as both Turpin and turf on unlike the
South Rim kingdoms we've already
discussed in the Turpin Basin
they were speakers of indo-european
languages one of the tellurian languages
it's thought perhaps they were Scythian
but that term has been used liberally in
ancient times as a catch-all word for
the nomadic peoples of the Eurasian
steppe north of the Black and Caspian
Seas the Scythian czar also called the
first nomads to traverse these
grasslands about 3,000 years ago the
farthest we could reliably go back in
the history of Turpin would be to this
Jew sure kingdom I mentioned this in
part 3 when we were discussing the
conquests of bao
that he had taken these ten kingdoms of
t-shirt a word to Chinese speakers the
character for ji is written with the
same character for vehicle Chu
instinctively you'd call this place
Cheshire and some scholars and
archaeologists do but most sources I
read refer to the place as cheese sure
and it's political entity as the cheese
share kingdom the Chinese have their own
way to refer to this juice share kingdom
they called this place GU sure and
surely other people refer to it as
something else
so this Jews share kingdom and their
civilization was known as go sure when
hua or GU sure culture and was also
called sube Shi culture it went back as
far as 3000 BCE but no later than 2000
BCE these go sure people were the
earliest inhabitants of Turpan and like
I just mentioned probably but not
necessarily spoke a proto-tool Korean
language when Chang Chen blew into town
during his famous second century BCE
journey
gia sure was still under the show new
yoke G sure was no different from any of
these Oasis kingdoms and that they were
all ants fighting an elephants whoever
came in and intimidated them the most
these trading centers would inevitably
bend the knee to them one belief is that
these earliest inhabitants of the turpan
basin arrived via the grasslands Silk
Road that's how your insult your Lu
that's how many people ended up in
Turpan man elsewhere in Xinjiang and
elsewhere in Central Asia of course the
Jews shared Kingdom began its rise as
the regional power in Turpan around the
time of the warring States Period
Eastern Jo dynasty their capital was at
jelka a half hour drive west from the
modern-day city of Turpan it was built
at the convergence of two rivers and was
a thriving place with a population
estimated about 12,000 not much let me
mention again none of these places were
grand in scale like you'd see in China
this kind of climate and environment and
she
John wasn't conducive to building these
massive cities that supported a six or
seven figure population even today the
entire population of Shenzhen it was
only something like 25 million and land
wise it's the biggest Province in China
this capital at yaja has ancient ruins
that could be seen on your next visit to
turpan they're about a half hour out of
town Josh summers of Far West China calm
has a great video of these ruins I'll
put a link to that on the CHP website at
tea cup dot media Java's location was
north of the Tian Shan but the juicer
kingdom was spread both north and south
of these mountains that separated the
Turpin antyram basins jus sure saw
plenty of action during the Han Zhang de
wars in fact the decisive battle and
that long-running contention between
these two powers in Xinjiang climaxed in
60 BCE at the Battle of juice sure as a
result of this battle the shona were
pushed north out of harm's way
allowing Han Dynasty China to plant
their flag in the turpan basin whereupon
they divided to shore up into eight mini
kingdoms and these people who live there
were always caught in the middle of the
han shan no contention but interestingly
I read somewhere that when all was said
and done jus sure and its capital jaha
well it's said that this place in the
turpan Basin ended up being the first
melting pot where Han Zhang new and
local indo-european people maybe
Scythian 's and no doubt the occasional
Altaic who wandered this far south they
all sort of mixed and lived peacefully
together you know what starts to happen
when that happens one of the great
discoveries of these Juicer people were
the young high tombs the young high glue
I mentioned them in part one when
introducing the towering mummies in the
early 2000s they discovered this grave
site where these who sure people buried
their departed the tombs were dated to
about 800 BC
there's something like 240 graves the
most famous being the one belonging to
it's believed a shaman I mentioned the
shaman of young high in part one the guy
I said snoop Tommy and Bill would dig he
was very well-preserved like so many of
the remains excavated one nice thing
about the deadly weather and climate I
guess he could say that besides the
world's oldest marijuana stash the other
thing discovered in this tomb were
desiccated food remains among them lots
of capers the little tiny green buds I
always push to the side of my plate
whenever I get a LOX platter at factors
capers have been around since at least
9500 BCE over in Mesopotamia and
capparis spinosa who was very big among
these go shirt or Jew sure people that's
as ancient a food condiment or medicine
as they come while we're on the subject
of the turpan basin some of you might
recall a couple years ago in 2018 they
discovered dumplings and some seventeen
hundred year old tomb from the Six
Dynasties period that was in Turpan
after the Han officials set up the new
capital at jelka well that was pretty
much it for these go sure people there
and over the next centuries the Chinese
during the Han and after the Han fell
well what was set up there and the
former ji sure was well I guess what you
could call a kind of Chinese colony and
this was called Kao Chung he was also
known as cholera kosha the city was
already there when Han officials renamed
it GAO chang this is the name you will
hear many times between the 4th to the
8th centuries in the year 327 GAO chang
was turned into a commander II sort of
like a like a military government that
ran the operation this was during the 16
kingdoms and several of these northern
kingdoms in China at various times took
control of GAO chang much more on this
important city of Gao Xiang later what's
important to keep in mind is that Gao
Chiang was near Turpin it wasn't part of
the towering basin
let me close out this episode by
introducing two more important players
in this history these were the role Ron
and the hep the lights the row Ron were
the third of these great nomadic step
people to rule these same lands that
Chinggis Khaan would one day lead they
were also referred to as the Ron Ron
among other names as with practically
everything from this era not sure about
how they got this name or if it was some
Chinese pejorative term first there were
the show-nu then the shen bay and now
the row ron they came from mongolia and
began to make their mark in the fourth
century ce e just as the show knew were
starting to fade from history like the
Xiang Yu and Shen Bay who came before
them these row Ron were a loose
confederation of nomads who were united
by a strong and capable leader the Xiong
nu had much on you and the row Ron had
you Jolie surely he was the cog on of
the row Ron from 402 to 410 and it was
the row Ron who interestingly were the
first of these northern nomadic peoples
to use the title Khan for their leader
that title didn't go out of style for
centuries the row Ron were on-again
off-again enemies of the Northern Wei
dynasty now we'll look at them next
episode when we focus on the sixteen
kingdoms and the northern and southern
dynasties the Northern Wei these shinbei
people they had a love-hate relationship
with the RO Ron that was reminiscent to
the state of affairs that existed
between the Han Dynasty and the Xiong nu
the row Ron like to show knew were once
based in and around the Ordos region of
northern Shan XI and across the border
into Inner Mongolia in like the Qin
Dynasty general monk Tian did to the
Xiong nu and 215 BCE
it was the mighty Northern Wei military
who shoved the row rod out of their
homeland and like the show knew the row
Ron later went on to bigger and better
things setting up their cabinet on the
northern step dawn of the 5th century ce
e china and the lands
rounding China had plenty of excitement
going on the eastern jin dynasty was
keeping Li hua Shao Chinese flame alive
in the southern half of China including
down in Vietnam if you remember this was
the period of China's so-called second
domination of Vietnam from 43 to 544 CE
II and in the four 60s for 70s the row
Ron headed west and moved into the
turpan Basin putting an end to Gao Chong
and 460 and getting as far as the South
Rim of the Tarim basin forcing the
kingdom Houghton to submit after they
had taken over GAO chang the row Ron
kept the Han Chinese leadership to
manage the place who were of course
beholden to them this lasted a hundred
and eighty years from 460 to 640 all
throughout the four hundreds the row Ron
battled with the Northern Wei by the
550's the row Ron were dealt a fatal
blow by turkic tribes allied with the
Western Way a successor kingdom of the
Northern Wei who bid the stage of
history farewell and 534 but not before
they contributed highly to the fall of
the rogue Ron in Xinjiang let's finish
up quickly with another group of people
the ones who put the final nail in the
coffin of the row Ron's domination in
Xinjiang a people who stayed a while in
Xinjiang left their mark and then
disappeared these were the hepta lights
aka the white Huns but not necessarily
any relation to the Huns who ravaged
Europe the Chinese knew them as the yin
da prior to their rise they had been one
of the many tribes subservient to the RO
Ron the hep the lights were based west
of Xin Jiang in the land known as
transoxiana sogdia and bactria
areas once conquered by Alexander the
Great that's the reason for the kept the
lights having this Greek sounding name
as opposed to something a little bit
more Altaic sounding their language was
Bactrian and they used an alphabet based
on the Greek their kingdom was spread
all the way south to portions of
northern
in western India where the Kushan Empire
held sway for the first three and a half
centuries of the Common Era the hepta
lights were feared as much as any of
these warrior nations and were equally
expert in intimidating their neighbors
some experts have suggested that these
hepta lights were the ancestors of
today's Pashtuns the eastern Iranian
people who populate parts of Afghanistan
and Pakistan the Pashtuns
and they sure know how to wage a good
war like a lot of these kingdoms that
thrived during the latter half of the
first millennium there isn't much solid
evidence of who these heck the lights
were or where they originated from some
scholars say they came from the Jewish
ur kingdom of the turpan basin some say
they came from the year they began their
rise as fassl's of the road run during
the fourth century and like the rohan
they also refer to their rulers as
Khan's late in the 5th century they
expanded east into shinjang and remain
the most powerful force out there until
their n came and 557 at the hands of the
gurke Turks and the sassani uns from
Iran what's important to know about the
hepta lights as far as our story is
concerned is that well they were one of
the many conquerors who weren't from Xin
Jiang but send troops there and stayed
as long as they could and lived off the
fat of the kingdoms of the Tai rim and
turpan basins and as was the case with
all these Central Asian kingdoms and
empires they stayed around until they
were knocked out by a bigger and better
organized confederation of tribes from
the northern step well ladies and
gentlemens as predicted we're way late
into stoppage time right now we'll look
at the kingdom of Kucha next time and
see how Buddhism took China by storm
a big expression of thanks to everyone
who was signed up at my patreon and
became a patron of the CHP patreon.com
just search for the China history
podcast and sign up three bucks a month
gets access to all kinds of other
material entirely unsuitable for this
respectable and long-running
Grint and a big thanks also to my
generous benefactors who have donated to
help promote this worthy cause at the
CHP PayPal donation center at PayPal dot
me slash China history podcast a big
thank you to you all links as usual at
the web site at tea cup dot media okay
that is gonna be that for this time we
ran a little long but nobody is gonna be
charged extra Lhasa Montgomery here
signing off on a gorgeous hot sunny la
morning more history of Shenzhen coming
at part five still have the tongue the
song you're in Ming and then all the
excitement that happens in the Ching
dynasty including the great game played
by Britain and Russia we can crack open
Peter Purdue's book and we finally get
to the 17th century I beg you don't fade
on me just yet do try and make it back
one more time for another exciting
episode of a China history podcast